Q: What parameters determine water quality?
A: The water quality considers physical, chemical and biological parameters for defining the quality of water and its maintenance. The various parameters such as TDS, pH, Temperature, BOD, COD, Phosphorous, DO, Bacteria, Phytoplankton, SO 4 , Ca, Na, Mg, NO 3 , NO 2 , NH 4 , are determined and compared with the standard limits prescribed by agencies such as CPCB, WHO, BIS etc.. The variability of these components is then compared with the present standards to determine the usage for different purposes like drinking, bathing, fisheries, agriculture etc according to the guidelines prescribed by central board. The parameters create huge data sets therefore water quality Index is a method which presents the overall quality of water. There is large number of water quality indices available around globe used for various purposes such as surface water quality, irrigation, ground water quality, heavy metal determination, overall pollution determination, trophic status determination etc. The index value gives a single value which can be compared with the range values specified for classification of water quality as High, Medium or low respectively.
A: Therefore it can be concluded that a complete water quality criteria should not only include the basic water quality parameter determination but should involve a complete analysis of water quality comprising physical, chemical, biological and toxicological component analysis to determine all the potential uses of the water body.
A: The water quality in the water bodies is greatly dependent on the physical, chemical and biological parameters and their interaction with each other. According to [12] the lakes are a unique system to study the interactions among various water quality parameters since they offer a unique ecosystem quite different from land or air. There are quite a large number of physical, chemical and biological parameters which needs to be evaluated before deciding the specific usage of water. According to the water quality monitoring guidelines by Central Pollution Control Board of India [21] the parameters to be decided greatly depends upon the purpose for which water to be utilized in the society. Table 2 presents the parameters and their permissible values for various DBU of the present water sources. These above parameters need to be evaluated for the determination of best use of the water available around the place. The various physico-chemical and biological parameters are in relation to each other and the overall quality of water depends upon the deviation from the permissible range.

Q: Have microplastics increased in water sources? If so, what are the implications?
A: With increase in the globalization the use and production of plastic has significantly increased to 300 million tonnes globally which in past 50 years, the increased use of plastic generates a lot of waste which like other classes of waste does not degrade or rot therefore leading to a global accumulation of the plastic waste. This plastic usually washes away in the lakes or oceans through streams, rivers or small rivulets and end up being a part of the water bodies, with the action of wind, sunlight or disturbances by waves these plastics breakdown into smaller particles thereby getting to a size smaller than 5 mm and microplastics or secondary plastics [115] . The microplastics do not only affect the soil but also affects sediments, open waters, humans, animals and micro-organisms [116] ."
A: 333 mm mesh was used by [117] to take samples across Lake Laurentian and it was found to have about 43,000 microplastics/ km 2 and about 466,000 microplastics/km 2 downstream of 2 major cities. The Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) technique was used to determine microplastics and it was found that the plastics were generally in form of microbeads originating from the packaging of consumer products originating from urban effluents.
A: In the study related to microplastic in Lake Winnipeg in Canada, [118] found that during the sampling duration of 2014 to 2016 the densities and the quantities of plastics were high as compared to Laurentian Great Lakes. The plastic was in the form of fibres known as secondary plastic. Though the effects of microplastics are unknown but it has been found to even exist around lakes with very sparse populations. The rivers are detected to be main source of carrying microplastics to the oceans and large sea. The lakes in remote areas also contain huge quantities of microplastics. The 2 lakes in Italy namely lake Bolsena and lake Chiusi were evaluated by [119] for microplastic contamination, themanta trawls approximately 6 in number were rotated around for determination of microplastic contents. The microplastics were found not only in the lake water but also in lake sediments. In lake Chiusi 2.68 to 3.36 particles/m 3 were found whereas in Lake Bolsena 0.82 to 4.42 particles/m 3 were detected. The factors such as location, type, wind intensity, waves, storm also determine the quantity of plastics in the lakes. The mean of 112 (Lake Bolsena) to 234 (Lake Chiusi) particles/kg was found. The Tibetan plateau which is known for sparse population and almost negligible human activities was also analysed by [120] for determining the microplastics in the Siling Co basin of the Plateau, the microplastics were confirmed in 6 out of 7 sites ranging from 8 ± 14 to 563 ± 1219 items/m 2 . River input is thought to be the main cause of the plastics in the lake. The nature of plastic is found to be generally packing and daily plastic products. Raman spectroscopyand SEM techniques were used for determining the texture of the microplastics. China's largest lake, Qinghai Lake was evaluated for presence of microplastics by [121] . The abundance of 0.03 Â 10 5 to 0.31 Â 10 5 items/km 2 in the inflowing rivers, 50 to 1292 items/m 2 in sediments and 2-15 items/m 2 i n fish respectively. Table 5 Comparison of Few studies in the above section in terms of Heavy metal values determined.
A: The effect of microplastics on the lakes have been studied in a limited amount throughout globe specially in India therefore it is important to practice the waste management appropriately to avoid these harmful components into the water, soil, sediments etc. which might pose a threat to the well being of humans and animals.

Q: How are heavy metals determined and how are they indexed?
Heavy metals are usually measured by measuring their concentration in water [93] . The quality of water is therefore influenced by the excessive concentration of heavy metals in water. The various human activities such as industrialization, urbanization, enhanced agricultural activities which input heavy loads of sewage, waste industrial water and harmful chemicals into lakes leading to heavy metal accumulation in the environment [94] . This input for large durations lead to bioaccumulation of toxic metals into the ecosystem and food chains causing harm to organisms and plants [95] . Table 5 represents the summary of few studies in terms of heavy metal values determined by the authors and their comparison with the standard permissible limits. The concentration of various heavy metals such as Pb, Zn, Cd, Mn, Fe, Ni, Cr, Cu, Co, As, and Hg were taken from the studies referred in above section. Altenworth Reservoir Danube [96] , Dasarhalli Tank, Bangalore [97] , Subarnarekha River [98] , Akkulam-Veli lake [99] , Ismailia Canal Egypt [79] , Harike Wetland [100] , Haihe Basin [101] , 110 lakes of China [102] were few of the major study areas included above.
The maximum numbers of heavy metals exceeding the permissible limits were associated with 110 lakes of China, almost all the parameters were beyond permissible limits. The next was Table 2 Water quality parameters, their inter-relationships and their effects on water quality.